ALMOST THERE!
MURPHY: STAY WITH US, EMORI.
STAY WITH US!
OK. SLOW, SLOW.
MURPH.
MURPHY: I GOT IT!
JACKSON: RAVEN, GET
THE DEFIBRILLATOR.
-WHERE?
-THERE!
MURPHY: HEY. COME ON, BABY.
COME ON, BABY.
STAY WITH ME.
JACKSON: GOOD. NOW--
RAVEN: I KNOW HOW.
I'VE USED ONE
ON MYSELF.
MURPHY: JAX,
WHAT CAN I DO?
NOTHING YET.
-OK.
-SET.
CLEAR!
COME ON!
ONE MORE TIME.
COME ON.
RAVEN, CLEAR!
MURPHY: GOOD JOB.
JACKSON: HER PULSE IS WEAK.
SHE'S LOST
TOO MUCH BLOOD.
-SO WE GIVE HER MINE.
-MINE, TOO.
JACKSON: MURPHY'S
A NIGHTBLOOD. YOU'RE NOT.
-WHA--
-JUST GO BACK FOR THE OTHERS.
I CAN'T JUST LEAVE
HER LIKE THIS.
UNLESS YOU'VE DONE
ABDOMINAL SURGERY
ON YOURSELF, TOO,
THERE'S NOTHING MORE
YOU CAN DO.
I'LL GET HER STABLE,
THEN TAKE OUT THE BAR.
RAVEN, HE'S RIGHT.
THEY COULD BE
TRAPPED.
YOU GOT TO GET
THEM OUT.
-ALONE? HOW?
-I DON'T KNOW.
NEVER MIND.
I'LL FIGURE IT OUT.
JUST...
JUST SAVE HER.
MURPHY: HEY.
ONCE OUR FRIENDS
ARE SAFE,
YOU HAVE TO GO
AFTER MADI, OK?
YOU HAVE TO STOP
CADOGAN.
MAN: SHEPHERD EN ROUTE
TO BRIDGE.
ALL DISCIPLES, STAY ALERT.
LEVITT: THE SHEPHERD'S
UNIT WILL BE WITH HIM
GUARDING THE DOOR.
TOO BAD FOR THEM.
GRENADES?
SO MORE KILLING,
THAT'S THE ANSWER?
IT'S WHAT WE DO.
MAYBE WE DON'T DESERVE
TO TRANSCEND.
AGH!
UNH!
COVER ME.
WE'RE TOO LATE.
WHAT TOOK YOU
SO LONG?
HEH. OUR PIER.
I TOOK YOU FISHING
HERE ONCE.
WHY ONLY ONCE?
YOU JUMPED IN.
OH, I TOLD YOU
NOT TO,
BUT YOU DIDN'T LISTEN.
HEH HEH HEH.
YOU NEVER LISTENED.
SHE TOOK AFTER HER MOTHER.
YOU'RE NOT CALLIE.
NO. THIS IS WHO YOU CHOSE.
WE MOST OFTEN TAKE THE FORM
OF THE SUBJECT'S
GREATEST TEACHER
OR THE SOURCE
OF THEIR GREATEST FAILURE.
IN THE RARE
EMOTION-DRIVEN SPECIES
SUCH AS YOUR OWN,
IT CAN BE
THEIR GREATEST LOVE.
SEEMS YOU'RE FACED
WITH ALL OF THE ABOVE.
ARE YOU GOD?
HEH.
FOR OUR PURPOSES,
YOU MAY CONSIDER ME
YOUR JUDGE.
MY JUDGE? SO THEY
WERE RIGHT.
THIS IS A TRIAL,
A TEST, NOT A WAR.
CORRECT.
THE LAST OF YOUR KIND
TO STAND BEFORE US--BECCA--
REFUSED THE TEST.
TELL ME...DAD,
IS THE HUMAN RACE NOW
READY TO JOIN US?
YES...
WE ARE READY.
EXCELLENT.
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS.
WE TALK,
I ASK QUESTIONS,
YOU ANSWER TRUTHFULLY.
IF YOU DO NOT,
I WILL KNOW IT.
IF YOUR ANSWERS ARE
SATISFACTORY,
YOUR CONSCIOUSNESS
AND THAT
OF YOUR ENTIRE SPECIES
WILL BECOME ONE WITH OURS.
YOU WILL TRANSCEND
YOUR HUMAN FORM
AND BECOME INFINITE.
IF YOU FAIL TO EARN
THIS EVOLUTIONARY LEAP,
YOU WILL BE ELIMINATED,
TURNED TO CRYSTAL THE WAY
THE BARDOANS
AND COUNTLESS OTHER
CIVILIZATIONS
BEFORE THEM WERE.
SOUND GOOD?
THE FIRST QUESTION IS
ABOUT LOVE.
SO FEW SPECIES ARE
GIVEN THIS GIFT,
YET YOU HAVE ATTEMPTED
TO ERASE IT IN PURSUIT
OF THIS MOMENT.
WHY?
PENCILS DOWN.
JORDAN: UNH!
MILLER: MY TURN.
GET SOME WATER.
SOUNDS LIKE THEY'RE
GETTING CLOSER.
GAIA TOOK THE LAST
OF THE WATER
ON HER HUNT.
I'LL GO TO THE RIVER.
HA. I HATE WAITING.
DONE TOO MUCH
OF IT.
TRUST ME, I KNOW.
BUT OCTAVIA AND CLARKE
CAN TAKE CARE OF THEMSELVES.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS
ARE FOR.
FRIENDS, HUH?
CAN...FRIENDS
DO THIS?
OH, THEY'RE BACK!
INDRA: FORM UP!
ATTACK ON MY ORDERS!
WHAT THE HELL ARE
YOU DOING HERE?
RAVEN: SAVING OUR ASSES
AGAIN.
THANK YOU.
IT'S WHAT HATCH WOULD DO.
-STONE'S RIGHT THROUGH THERE.
-COPY THAT.
THE REST OF YOU BEAT IT
UNLESS YOU WANT
A LUNG FULL
OF PULVERIZED BUNKER.
MILLER: HEY! WE'VE GOT
PEOPLE DOWN THERE.
SO YOU DO.
HEAR THAT, BOYS?
MAN: YEP.
NIKKI: SET PHASERS TO STUN.
MAN: YOU GOT IT.
IT'S NOT JACKSON.
HE'S FINE.
IN SANCTUM TREATING
EMORI.
MURPHY'S WITH THEM.
HOPE: IT'S GOT TO BE
ECHO OR NIYLAH THEN.
WHY NOT THE OTHERS?
INDRA: THERE ARE NO OTHERS.
GABRIEL'S DEAD. CADOGAN
HAS MADI ON BARDO.
CLARKE AND OCTAVIA WENT
TO GET HER BACK.
THEY'RE TO RETURN FOR US
SO WE CAN HELP STOP HIM.
NIKKI: FIRE IN THE HOLE!
THEN LET'S DO THAT.
MILLER: HOW? CADOGAN
WILL BE MOBILIZING
HIS ARMY FOR WAR.
WE GOT 10 PEOPLE.
INDRA: WITH SHEIDHEDA DEAD,
WONKRU WILL FIGHT.
WE GO TO SANCTUM FIRST.
WONKRU WILL LOSE, INDRA.
HOPE: MILLER'S RIGHT.
WHAT WE NEED IS
A DISTRACTION, NOT A FIGHT,
A WAY TO GET A SMALL TEAM
PAST THEIR ARMY TO
KILL CADOGAN.
ENERGY WEAPONS.
THEIR WEAPONS REQUIRE
ENERGY, TOO.
TOO BAD WE WON'T
BE ABLE TO SEE WHAT
WE'RE FIRING OURS AT.
MAYBE WE WILL.
NIKKI: LOOK WHAT I FOUND.
ECHO: HOPE!
NIKKI: MORE IMPORTANTLY,
WE'RE THROUGH THE COLLAPSE.
GOOD. THEN LET'S GO.
INDRA: WAIT.
WHAT ABOUT GAIA?
I'M SORRY. CLARKE
AND OCTAVIA ARE
IN TROUBLE ON BARDO.
SOUNDS FAMILIAR.
INDRA, WE CAN'T
WAIT FOR HER.
MILLER: SLOW DOWN.
WE STILL DON'T HAVE A PLAN
THAT DOESN'T END
WITH ALL OF US DEAD.
ACTUALLY, I THINK JORDAN WAS
JUST ABOUT TO TELL US ONE.
THIS ONE WOULD MAKE
MY FATHER PROUD.
FOR MY FIRST TRICK,
I WILL MAKE AN ARMY APPEAR.
I'M OFFLINE. WEAPONS
NOT RESPONSIVE.
I'VE GOT NOTHING.
NONE OF US DO.
INDRA: THIS IS NOT
THE STONE ROOM.
THE DISTRACTION CAN
STILL WORK.
INSERTION TEAM, GO NOW!
RAVEN: COPY THAT.
ECHO, LEAD THE WAY.
THE REST OF YOU,
INTO THE TREES!
THE LAST WAR
IS HERE!
THEIR WEAPONS
ARE DOWN.
WHY AREN'T THEY
ATTACKING?
MAN: MOVE, MOVE, MOVE, MOVE!
WELL, THEY'RE
DISTRACTED.
YEAH. LONG ENOUGH
FOR US TO DIE.
WE ALL WILL DIE.
WHEN IS OUT
OF OUR CONTROL.
THIS IS A GOOD HOW.
SHE'S AS STABLE
AS SHE'S GONNA GET.
IT'S TIME.
MILLER: JAX.
THANK GOD.
RAVEN GOT YOU OUT?
YEAH. SHE AND WONKRU
JUST LEFT FOR BARDO.
WITHOUT YOU?
I'M NOT LEAVING
YOU AGAIN.
WHATEVER HAPPENS NEXT,
WE STICK TOGETHER.
MURPHY: I AM GLAD
YOU ARE SAFE.
NOW HOW ABOUT
MY REUNION?
MILLER: WHAT CAN I DO?
HELP HOLD HER STEADY
WHILE I TAKE THIS OUT.
IF SHE MOVES,
IT'LL CAUSE
EVEN MORE DAMAGE.
-YOU UNDERSTAND?
-YEAH.
JACKSON: ON 3.
1...
2...
3.
MURPHY: HEY, HEY!
HEY. COME ON.
EMORI, EMORI! EMORI!
JACKSON: SHE'S BLEEDING OUT.
I HAVE TO GET IN THERE
SURGICALLY AND FIND THE--
HURRY UP!
NO, EMORI!
ADRENALINE.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
DO SOMETHING!
COME ON! DO SOMETHING!
YOU'RE A DOCTOR! PLEASE!
NO.
NO, NO, NO, NO.
HEY, HEY.
EMORI. NO.
EMORI, PLEASE.
TAKE OUT
HER MIND DRIVE.
-PLEASE.
-PLEASE WHAT?
PUT HER MIND
IN YOUR HEAD?
WE KNOW FROM CLARKE
AND JOSEPHINE HOW THAT ENDS.
FINE.
-I'LL DO IT MYSELF.
-MUR...
IF YOU DIED
AND I COULD SEE
YOU AGAIN,
I WOULD DO
THE SAME THING.
JACKSON: I GOT THIS.
LEVITT: YOU DO REALIZE
THAT IF CLARKE CAN'T
STOP THE TEST
THEN WE ARE BUYING TIME
FOR WANHEDA
TO BE THE WITNESS
FOR THE HUMAN RACE.
CAN I ASK YOU SOMETHING?
IF SHE GETS IT DONE,
WILL MY BROTHER
TRANSCEND?
NO. SHEPHERD'S PASSAGE,
"BOOK OF BARDO,"
CHAPTER 1, VERSE 6.
"DEATH IS THE END,
MY FRIEND.
ONLY THE LIVING
SHALL TRANSCEND."
MUST HAVE SLEPT
THROUGH THAT CLASS.
-WHAT?
-IF SHE DOES TAKE THE TEST,
THEN TODAY'S THE END.
EITHER WAY, TRANSCENDENCE
OR EXTINCTION...
I WOULD HAVE LIKED
TO LIVE A LITTLE FIRST.
SAME.
RAVEN: SORRY TO INTERRUPT.
OHH!
-WHAT HAPPENED HERE?
-WE DID.
RAVEN: DON'T TELL ME
CADOGAN KILLED MADI.
OCTAVIA: WORSE
THAN KILLED HER.
CLARKE WENT IN AFTER HIM
TO STOP THE TEST.
RAVEN: WENT IN?
LEVITT: HOW DO YOU KNOW
YOU WEREN'T FOLLOWED?
RAVEN: HEY.
YOU CAN RELAX.
THE DISCIPLES HAVE
THEIR HANDS FULL
WITH WONKRU RIGHT NOW.
WHAT, YOU BROUGHT
AN ARMY HERE?
ECHO: THEY'RE NOT
HERE TO FIGHT.
IT WAS A DISTRACTION
TO GET US INSIDE
-SO WE CAN KILL CADOGAN.
-THE DISCIPLES DON'T KNOW THAT.
IF CLARKE CAN'T
STOP THE TEST TO
DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT
THE HUMAN RACE DESERVES
TO TRANSCEND
WHILE WHAT'S LEFT
OF THE HUMAN RACE
IS FIGHTING A WAR...
RAVEN: THAT WOULD BE BAD.
LEVITT: WORSE THAN BAD.
IF WE FAIL,
THE TRANSCENDENTS
SEND GEM9.
THE SPY UNDERSTANDS.
LOOK. I'M SORRY
FOR WHAT I DID
TO YOU, OK?
I WASN'T MYSELF.
OCTAVIA: WE'LL MAKE
FRIENDS LATER.
RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE TO
STOP THE WAR.
LEVITT, ON ME.
ECHO: I'M GOING
WITH THEM.
RAVEN, GET
THAT BRIDGE OPEN.
YOU DON'T SEE THAT
EVERY DAY.
WHY AM I STILL HERE?
LEXA: YOU KNOW WHY.
LEXA.
I'M NOT HER, CLARKE.
I KNOW.
THE TEST ISN'T OVER?
NO. I'M SORRY.
WE CAN'T STOP WHAT'S
BEEN SET IN MOTION.
YOUR SPECIES MUST NOW
BE JUDGED THROUGH YOU.
THIS MAN WAS UNARMED,
NO THREAT TO YOU,
YET YOU KILLED HIM.
WHY?
HE KILLED
MY DAUGHTER.
IS MADI DEAD?
NO, BUT SHE WILL BE
BECAUSE OF HIM.
SO YOUR NEED FOR REVENGE
IS MORE IMPORTANT
THAN THE FATE
OF THE ENTIRE HUMAN RACE?
IT'S NOT REVENGE.
IT'S JUSTICE.
CLARKE...
YOU DON'T KNOW
MY PAIN.
YOU'RE WRONG.
DURING THE TEST,
I SENSE EVERY PART OF YOU.
I'M FEELING YOUR PAIN
RIGHT NOW.
REALLY?
THEN FEEL ME HOLDING
LEXA AS SHE DIES.
FEEL ME SEEING SOMEONE
ELSE WEAR MY MOTHER'S FACE.
FEEL ME MURDER
MY BEST FRIEND
TO SAVE MY CHILD,
ONLY TO HAVE
HER DIE ANYWAY.
FEEL THAT.
YOU SUFFER
AND INFLICT SUFFERING
ON OTHERS.
PAIN BEGETS PAIN.
THAT'S NOT JUSTICE, CLARKE.
YOU SAY YOU DO THESE THINGS
TO PROTECT YOUR PEOPLE,
BUT YOU'RE ALL ONE...PEOPLE.
THAT MUCH CADOGAN
HAD RIGHT.
HE CREATED A WORLD
WITHOUT LOVE
TO GET TO YOU.
HE KILLED MY CHILD
HAVE YOU EVER
CONSIDERED THAT
YOU'RE THE PROBLEM?
HOW DARE YOU
JUDGE ME
WHEN YOU ANNIHILATE
ENTIRE SPECIES
BECAUSE THEY DON'T
LIVE UP TO YOUR IDEALS?
HAVE I PULLED THE LEVER
TO COMMIT GENOCIDE?
YES, I HAVE.
AND DID LOVE MAKE
ME DO THIS?
YOU'RE DAMN RIGHT
IT DID!
BUT WHAT'S
YOUR EXCUSE?
YOU PLAY GAMES
WITH PEOPLE
AND CALL YOURSELVES
HIGHER BEINGS.
YOU ARE NO BETTER
THAN THE MURDERERS
I'VE KILLED,
AND YOU ARE NO BETTER
THAN ME!
I AM SORRY FOR ALL
YOU HAVE LOST.
YOU'VE BORNE SO MUCH...
BUT IF YOU ARE HUMANITY,
THEN I'M AFRAID HUMANITY
IS NOT WORTHY
OF TAKING THE NEXT STEP.
IT HAS BEEN DECIDED.
MURPHY: I REMEMBER THAT.
THE PLACE
WE FIRST MET.
LOVE AT FIRST KNIFE
TO THROAT.
OH, YOU ARE
SO BEAUTIFUL.
JOHN, WHERE ARE WE?
JOSEPHINE CALLED IT
THE MINDSPACE.
IF IT WERE UP TO ME,
I WOULD HAVE
CHOSEN OUR CAVE,
BUT...
I DIED.
YOU DID.
-NOT ACCEPTABLE.
-HEH HEH.
HMM.
YOU PUT MY MIND DRIVE
IN YOUR HEAD.
TWO MINDS, ONE BODY.
YOU'LL DIE, TOO.
YOU HAVE TO TAKE IT OUT.
WITHOUT YOU, I'D JUST
BE SURVIVING, EMORI.
-I WOULDN'T BE LIVING.
-NO.
HEY, HEY, HEY.
I WOULD TAKE A FEW MORE
HOURS WITH YOU
OVER FOREVER WITHOUT.
NO, NO, NO.
YOU CAN'T DO THIS.
I WON'T LET YOU
DO THIS, SO WAKE UP.
-EMORI.
-WAKE UP.
JUST WAKE UP!
WAKE UP!
WAKE UP! WAKE UP!
JACKSON! JACKSON,
WAKE HIM UP!
-EMORI.
-DON'T LET HIM DO THIS.
EMORI: JACKSON!
JOHN, JOHN!
-STOP, STOP, HEY.
-DON'T! LET GO OF ME!
THIS IS OK WITH ME.
NO. IT'S NOT OK
WITH ME.
IT'S OK. IT'S OK.
WHAT IS THAT?
WHAT?
VANCE JOY:
♪ NO SECOND CHANCES
THE LAST TIME
I ASKED YOU TO DANCE,
YOU STABBED ME
WITH A BUTCHER KNIFE.
RELATIONSHIPS.
YEAH.
♪ BUT I HEAR YOUR CALL
♪ HOLD ON NOW
♪ WE'RE GOING HOME
♪ IF WE MAKE IT OR WE DON'T
♪ WE WON'T BE ALONE
♪ WHEN I SEE YOUR LIGHT SHINE
♪ SOME THINGS ARE SIMPLE,
HARD TO IGNORE, THEY SAY ♪
♪ THE TRUTH IS LIKE THAT
♪ WE'RE GETTING COLDER,
SO FAR FROM THE SHORE ♪
♪ I SAY
♪ THE WORLD IS LIKE THAT
♪ I CAN'T SEE YOU
♪ BUT I HEAR YOUR CALL
♪ HOLD ON NOW
RAVEN: CLARKE?
OH, THAT CAN'T BE GOOD.
WHAT HAVE I DONE?
CLARKE, WAIT!
DID YOU TAKE THE TEST?
TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED.
I FAILED.
IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN YOU,
NOT ME.
THEY SHOULD HAVE PICKED
YOU FIRST.
SO THAT'S IT?
WE DON'T TRANSCEND?
WE'RE WIPED OUT?
IT'S OVER?
WELL, CAN WE CHANGE
THEIR MINDS?
I DON'T KNOW.
I NEED TO BE WITH MADI.
THERE'S NOT MUCH TIME.
CLARKE, WAIT!
AH. TOUCHING A PULSAR.
WHAT COULD GO WRONG?
NO WAY.
WAIT. WHERE'S EARTH?
ABOUT 42 BILLION
LIGHT YEARS AWAY.
YOU READ OUR THOUGHTS
AND TAKE THE FORM
OF SOMEONE WE LOVE.
VERY GOOD.
YOURS IS
AN INTERESTING CHOICE.
NOT YOUR REAL MOTHER,
YET HER OPINION OF YOU
MATTERED EVEN MORE.
YOU FEAR HER JUDGMENT.
AM I HERE TO TALK
ABOUT ME?
WHY ARE YOU HERE?
THE TEST IS OVER.
AS YOU KNOW,
CLARKE FAILED.
HOW CAN THAT BE?
CLARKE SACRIFICED
EVERYTHING FOR US
SO THAT WE DIDN'T
HAVE TO.
SHE GAVE UP HER SOUL
SO WE COULD KEEP OURS.
SHE COMMITTED ATROCITIES.
SHE WAS TRYING TO
SAVE US.
SHE DOOMED YOU.
I'M SORRY.
ARE YOU?
BECAUSE TO ME,
IT LOOKS LIKE
YOU DON'T FEEL ANYTHING.
HAVE WE MADE MISTAKES?
YES.
CLARKE, ME, ALL OF US,
BUT WE WERE JUST
TRYING TO SURVIVE.
I'M NOT SAYING WE'RE
READY NOW,
AND IF YOU DON'T WANT
US TO JOIN YOU, FINE...
BUT AT LEAST LET
US LIVE,
KEEP TRYING
TO DO BETTER.
WE WILL. WE HAVE.
YOU SAY YOU HAVE,
YET EVEN NOW YOU ARE POISED
AND ON THE BRINK
OF SELF-EXTERMINATION.
LOOK.
YOU SAY YOU'RE
TRYING TO DO BETTER,
BUT ALL I SEE ARE TWO TRIBES
OF FRIGHTENED CREATURES
WILLING TO KILL THE OTHER
TO SAVE THEMSELVES.
BUT THEY'RE NOT FIGHTING.
IT WAS JUST
A DISTRACTION.
THIS PROVES NOTHING.
THEY WILL FIGHT, RAVEN,
LIKE THEY ALWAYS DO.
YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY
KNOW THAT.
HMM.
LET THE GAMES BEGIN.
STOP! WHAT THE HELL
ARE YOU DOING?
THEY CAN'T SEE
OR HEAR YOU.
YOU CANNOT STOP THIS.
NO ONE CAN.
INDRA: WHO FIRED?
NO ONE RESPOND!
LEVITT, SLOW DOWN!
HOLD YOUR FIRE!
DON'T SHOOT!
MAN: HOLD!
WAIT, WAIT, WAIT!
HOLD!
LISTEN TO ME.
THIS IS NOT THE LAST WAR.
ERR.
LEVITT: WE DON'T ACHIEVE
TRANSCENDENCE THROUGH VIOLENCE.
CADOGAN WAS WRONG.
WE'RE BEING TESTED RIGHT NOW,
ALL OF US.
RAVEN: YOU WERE SAYING?
LEVITT: PUT DOWN
YOUR WEAPONS!
SHEIDHEDA: NONSENSE.
HISTORY IS WRITTEN
BY THE VICTORS.
LET'S TRY THIS AGAIN.
UNH!
DISCIPLE: MAN DOWN!
RETURN FIRE!
LEVITT, NO!
CHOIR: ♪ TO THE ONE I LOVE
OCTAVIA, WAIT!
CHOIR: ♪ THIS ONE GOES OUT...
DAMN IT!
OCTAVIA: INDRA, COVER ME!
FIRE!
CHOIR: ♪ A SIMPLE PROP
ECHO: UNH!
CHOIR: ♪ TO OCCUPY MY TIME
OCTAVIA: OH, MY GOD.
CHOIR: ♪ THIS ONE GOES OUT
TO THE ONE I LOVE ♪
♪ FIRE
OCTAVIA: ECHO, YOU'RE HIT.
WHAT THE HELL
ARE YOU DOING?
ECHO: I LOST BELLAMY.
I WILL NOT LOSE
HIS SISTER.
CHOIR: ♪ OOH, OOH, OOH
AAH!
ABBY: DON'T YOU SEE?
DESPITE THE BEAUTY
THAT HUMANS ARE
CAPABLE OF,
YOU CAN'T BREAK FREE
FROM THE CYCLE OF VIOLENCE.
CHOIR: ♪ THIS ONE GOES OUT
TO THE ONE I'VE LEFT BEHIND ♪
HI, BABY. I'M HERE.
HOPE: AUNTY O!
CHOIR: ♪ A SIMPLE PROP
TO OCCUPY... ♪
LEVITT: YOU HAVE TO
STOP THE WAR.
JORDAN: I GOT THIS.
LEVITT: STOP THE WAR.
ABBY: THIS IS WHO
YOU ARE.
THAT'S WHY YOU FAILED
THE TEST.
I'M SO SORRY
I FAILED YOU.
I FAILED EVERYONE.
CHOIR: ♪ FIRE
IT'S TIME FOR US TO GO,
RAVEN.
THE END OF THE HUMAN RACE
IS HERE.
CHOIR: ♪ FIRE
YOU CAN DO THIS.
OCTAVIA: JORDAN, HOPE,
DON'T LET THEM DIE.
THE DEAD DON'T TRANSCEND.
YOU'RE GONNA BE OK.
CHOIR: ♪ THIS ONE GOES OUT
TO THE ONE I LOVE ♪
INDRA! INDRA,
HOLD YOUR FIRE!
CHOIR: ♪ GOES OUT TO THE ONE
I'VE LEFT BEHIND ♪
SHEIDHEDA: INDRA IS NOT
IN COMMAND HERE!
I AM, AND I SAY...
OCTAVIA: ENOUGH!
AHH!
WHAT THE HELL ARE WE
DOING HERE?
YOU SWORE AN OATH
TO FIGHT FOR ALL MANKIND.
WELL, LOOK AROUND YOU!
WE ARE MANKIND!
WE ARE ONE CREW!
IF I KILL YOU,
I KILL MYSELF.
IF WE KEEP KILLING
EACH OTHER,
THERE WON'T BE ANYONE
LEFT TO SAVE!
OUR FIGHT IS OVER, INDRA!
I HOPE YOU KNOW
WHAT YOU'RE DOING.
WE'RE UNARMED.
I KNOW YOU'RE AFRAID
TO WALK AWAY
FROM EVERYTHING YOU'VE SPENT
YOUR LIVES TRAINING FOR.
I AM, TOO.
MY BROTHER BELIEVED,
AS YOU DO,
THAT TRANSCENDENCE,
WHATEVER THAT MEANS,
IS WITHIN REACH.
HE DIED FOR THAT BELIEF,
AND FOR THAT,
HE'LL NEVER GET THERE,
NEVER TRANSCEND.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT I BELIEVE,
BUT I DO KNOW THAT
IF WE FIGHT THIS WAR
WE DON'T DESERVE TO FIND OUT
IF HE WAS RIGHT.
WE DON'T DESERVE TO SURVIVE.
WE FAIL, WE DIE.
SHE'S REACHING THEM.
I'VE BEEN TO WAR,
AND LET ME TELL YOU
THE ONLY WAY TO WIN...
IS NOT TO FIGHT.
NICE SPEECH.
NO. STAY WITH ME!
THIS DOES NOT END HERE.
ECHO, NO! NO!
PUMP HER HEART.
DO IT NOW!
MAN: SIR, WHAT
ARE YOUR ORDERS?
FOR ALL MANKIND.
-FOR ALL MANKIND.
RAVEN: I TOLD YOU.
WE CAN CHANGE.
WE JUST NEED
MORE TIME.
PLEASE.
OCTAVIA: WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
HOPE: WHAT?
I SAID--
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
NO PAIN.
OH, MY GOD.
OHH!
THIS IS WHAT I SAW
WHEN I WAS ADJUSTING.
BELLAMY WAS RIGHT.
JAX.
WE'RE GLOWING.
OH, NOW THAT IS COOL.
RAVEN WENT IN.
IT'S OK.
I KNOW YOU DON'T
WANT TO LEAVE ME...
BUT YOU HAVE TO GO NOW.
THIS GIVES YOU A CHANCE
TO LIVE.
LET GO, MADI.
JUST LET GO.
I'LL BE OK.
I LOVE YOU FOREVER, MADI,
FOREVER.
BONO: ♪ IF YOU TWIST
AND TURN AWAY ♪
♪ IF YOU TEAR
YOURSELF IN TWO AGAIN ♪
CLARKE: IS ANYONE HERE?
MURPHY?
EMORI?
BONO: ♪ IF I COULD, I WOULD
♪ LET IT GO
♪ SURRENDER
♪ DISLOCATE
HEY, GIRL! HI!
WHERE ARE WE GONNA
LIVE, GIRL, HUH?
WHERE ARE WE GONNA LIVE?
BONO: ♪ IF I COULD THROW
♪ THIS LIFELESS LIFELINE
TO THE WIND ♪
♪ LEAVE THIS HEART OF CLAY
♪ SEE YOU WALK,
WALK AWAY ♪
♪ INTO THE NIGHT
♪ AND THROUGH THE RAIN
TODAY, WATER AND SHELTER.
TOMORROW, FOOD, OK?
PICASSO, COME!
DAMN IT!
BONO: ♪ IF I COULD
THROUGH MYSELF ♪
♪ SET YOUR SPIRIT FREE
♪ I'D LEAD YOUR HEART AWAY
♪ SEE YOU BREAK...
PICASSO?
BONO: ♪ BREAK AWAY
BONO: ♪ INTO THE LIGHT
♪ AND TO THE DAY
PICASSO?
BONO: ♪ HOO HOO
PLEASE COME BACK!
I DON'T WANT TO BE ALONE.
BONO: ♪ HOO HOO
YOU'RE NOT.
BONO: ♪ LET IT GO
♪ AND SO TO FADE AWAY
WHAT DO YOU WANT?
TO EXPLAIN.
THERE'S NO NEED.
I GET IT. I BEAR IT
SO THEY DON'T HAVE TO AGAIN.
SUCH A CURIOUS SPECIES.
YOU'VE ADDED SO MUCH
TO US ALREADY.
I'M GLAD TO HAVE BEEN
WRONG ABOUT YOU.
WAIT.
DOES THAT MEAN...
YOU'RE HERE TO TAKE ME
WITH YOU?
NO. YOU CAN NEVER
JOIN US, CLARKE.
YOUR ACTIONS MUST
HAVE A COST.
JUST MINE?
AM I THE ONLY HUMAN BEING
WHO EVER SINNED?
OF COURSE NOT,
BUT YOU ARE
THE ONLY TEST SUBJECT
FROM ANY SPECIES
ANYWHERE IN THE UNIVERSE
SINCE THE DAWN OF TIME
WHO COMMITTED MURDER
DURING A TEST.
I'D DO IT AGAIN.
MADI KNEW YOU'D
SAY THAT.
MADI'S WITH YOU THEN?
IN A MANNER
OF SPEAKING, YES.
HER CONSCIOUSNESS
HAS JOINED OURS.
SHE'S AT PEACE.
SHE'LL NEVER FEEL PAIN,
SHE'LL NEVER DIE.
SHE KNEW THAT LIVING
HERE WITHOUT ANYONE
HER OWN AGE TO LOVE
IS SOMETHING YOU
WOULDN'T HAVE
WANTED FOR HER,
EVEN IF IT MEANT YOU
BEING ALONE.
I SUPPOSE THAT CHOICE
WAS MADE EASIER
WITH THE REALIZATION
YOU WOULDN'T BE.
TRANSCENDENCE IS A CHOICE?
YOU CAN CHOOSE
TO COME BACK?
OF COURSE,
THOUGH UNTIL NOW
NO ONE EVER HAD.
RAVEN: HA HA HA!
BONO: ♪ HOO HOO HOO HOO
EMORI: WOW! THERE'S
ALL THESE FISH!
♪ IF I COULD,
YOU KNOW I WOULD ♪
♪ IF I COULD, I WOULD
♪ LET IT GO
THERE WON'T BE
OFFSPRING,
AND THEY WON'T JOIN
US WHEN THEY DIE.
NONE OF THEM SEEM
TO CARE.
HEY. THERE SHE IS.
NIYLAH: CLARKE.
BONO: ♪ CONDEMNATION
♪ REVELATION IN TEMPTATION
A CURIOUS SPECIES
INDEED.
BONO: ♪ ISOLATION, DESOLATION
♪ LET IT GO
♪ AND SO FADE AWAY
RAVEN: PICASSO!
♪ LET IT GO
THERE SHE IS! HI!
♪ AND SO FADE AWAY
♪ SO LET IT GO
♪ OH, NO
♪ AND SO TO FADE AWAY
♪ I'M WIDE AWAKE
♪ WIDE AWAKE
♪ I'M NOT SLEEPING
♪ OH, NO, NO